Hi there, I'm Olly and I'm going to
show you around Pagecord, which is my
blogging and website building app. I
built Pagecord because most blogging
platforms that I tried at least I found
a bit too complicated.  and I just
a bit too complicated. and I just
wanted somewhere that would let me focus
on writing and also post by email, which
is something I think is really cool.
so I'm going to show you around the
product  just by signing up and I'll
product just by signing up and I'll
take you through all the features
hopefully in less than five minutes and
you can see what you think. So, if you
go to pagecord.com,
this is what you'll see.  it's a
this is what you'll see. it's a
whole website. Loads of stuff to talk
about there, but let's just get started,
shall we? Okay. So, when you create an
account, you only really need to add a
subdomain, which is the part of your
URL, the web address,  that defines
URL, the web address, that defines
your blog. So, in this case, we're just
going to call it demo. And then your
email.  and you can  use a hyphar
email. and you can use a hyphar
email if you want.  but you won't be
email if you want. but you won't be
able to post by email if you do that.
So, it's up to you.  email safe with
So, it's up to you. email safe with
with us.  but it's entirely up to
with us. but it's entirely up to
you. So, here I'm going to use the page
you. So, here I'm going to use the Pagecord  support email address. Hello,
cord support email address. Hello,
pagecord.com.  you can set password if
pagecord.com. you can set password if
you want. Otherwise, you're just going
to use magic links, which is what we're
going to do here. Also, you can
subscribe to the mailing list, which is
basically just the page called blog.
basically just the Pagecord blog.
You'll get an email once a week at most.
no spam, whatever.  so you create
no spam, whatever. so you create
your account.  thanks for signing up.
your account. thanks for signing up.
And then you're going to get the
verification email just to make sure
your email is legit.
Okay, here it is. Verify your address.
Welcome.  also worth taking a note
Welcome. also worth taking a note
here  of this special  email address
here of this special email address
that you get here, which is how you post
by email. We'll get on to that later.
I'm going to save I'm going to save
that in my little list here. Okay. So,
verify your email and you're in.
okay. So, your blog is now live at
demo.pagecord.com. Whatever you chose is
your subdomain. We can just view that.
There's really not a lot to see at the
moment. Don't worry, we'll get into
that.  so you can give your blog  a
that. so you can give your blog a
title. So, you know, demo blog.
you can add a bio if you want, all
about me.
there are some really basic color
schemes, but you can also customize this
stuff, but for now, let's just, I don't
know, pick coral.  a type face. Let's
know, pick coral. a type face. Let's
go with monospace.  and there are
go with monospace. and there are
three different layouts, which we'll get
into. The stream is just one post after
another your blog homepage. Or you can
have the classic like list of titles, or
you can have more of a a card layout.
We'll just go with the stream for now.
Easy to change. You also have some
languages for your blog. So,  this
languages for your blog. So, this
has been translated into different
languages here. And then create your
first post. There are two ways. We'll
get into that either by email or just
click on new post. And you can also
create homepage. There's lots of things
here that we'll get into after. Anyway,
so we'll just get rid of the onboarding.
And then we're in. Okay. So, to create a
new post, really pretty obvious. Create
a new post.  and yeah, my first post,
a new post. and yeah, my first post,
of course.
So the editor is pretty powerful in page
So the editor is pretty powerful in Pagecord.  all the usual  styling you
cord. all the usual styling you
know
type your first blog post
you know you can have lists the usual
unordered list.
There's different  depths.
There's different depths.
here
you can of course include images and
this is only for premium customers but
everyone gets a free trial for images
and that's just because hosting images
is you know cost money and there has to
be something to encourage people to
subscribe. You can do captions
if you like.  pretty cool thing is you
if you like. pretty cool thing is you
can also do  a tables
which is kind of natively built in. I
won't go into too much detail about that
and all the other things. What the other
really cool thing I think is if you were
like a dev and you were into coding you
can have syntax highlighting is out of
the box.
so you can see it happen.
Hello.
And there's loads of different languages
are supported. You might have noticed
there you can also use markdown commands
or paste in markdown which is quite
cool. So for example, if you wanted
list, you can do one, two.  if you
list, you can do one, two. if you
wanted  italics, you can just do that.
wanted italics, you can just do that.
If you wanted  some code here, you can
If you wanted some code here, you can
do that. So, yeah, that's pretty cool.
So, anyway, let's publish this
fascinating post. You can also save
drafts, by the way.  of course, but
drafts, by the way. of course, but
let's just publish this one. So, it's
live on the blog. And then now, if we go
over here, yay, we've got the colors,
the little bio that we created, and the
post. My first post.  little images
post. My first post. little images
are kind of zoomable.  and yeah, that
are kind of zoomable. and yeah, that
looks pretty cool. And also if we kind
of toggle dark modes supported out the
box  which is quite nice. You can
box which is quite nice. You can
override that if you don't like it but
by default  you get that which is
by default you get that which is
pretty cool.  now that's creating a
pretty cool. now that's creating a
post  one way. Now if we let's just
post one way. Now if we let's just
copy this email address.  let's try it
copy this email address. let's try it
the other way.  oh, you get a nice
the other way. oh, you get a nice
welcome email, by the way,
when you
when you sign up. Little bit of
information there. Anyway, let's just go
with this. We're going to let's just
make this big. So, it's from the email
address I signed up with. Enter my
secret email.  my second post is from
secret email. my second post is from
email. Yay.  this is a test.
email. Yay. this is a test.
let's put in an image. Let's drag my
little image here. Thanks to someone on
Unsplash.  very nice. And then let's
Unsplash. very nice. And then let's
do I don't know.  there it is.
do I don't know. there it is.
this is a quote
and
you know other things you might want to
do. I don't know bold.
It also does  to some extent and this
It also does to some extent and this
is not always working. Depends on your
email client.  monace code  code
email client. monace code code
stuff.
and yeah, so let's just get this
sent. So that will send  I have the
sent. So that will send I have the
undo send. So we have to wait a minute
for that to appear.
But if we go back to our post list,
yay, that now has arrived. Let's have a
look at that. my second post from email.
There you go. So, you've got some kind
of code stuff worked. Bold, quotes,
image worked. Pretty cool.
okay. So, let's go into u looking at
something else. So, embeds is something
that's quite interesting. Pat takes a
really simple approach to this. If you
want to put a YouTube video or a Spotify
playlist, Apple Music, that kind of
thing,  you can. So, Pagecord supports
thing, you can. So, Pagecord supports
thing, you can. So, Pagecord supports. I really can't type embeds.
sports. I really can't type embeds.
here's one I prepared earlier. So,
we've got
Spotify.
Oh man, I really can't type. And say
YouTube. Let's have a look. And we
publish that. Then when you when you
view your blog,  it's going to
view your blog, it's going to
refresh.
there you go. So, they're all
automatically  embedded and that's
automatically embedded and that's
just, you know, straight from Spotify
and YouTube and they're nicely rendered.
What is good here?
Pretty cool.  the other thing you can
Pretty cool. the other thing you can
do and this works from email as well.
image
expansion suppose for one of a better
word.
if we copy that, this should work as
well.
which is pretty cool. So, so that'll
work and that also works from email. If
you just past it in a link in your
email, it'll automatically expand that.
So, that's kind creating posts.  you
So, that's kind creating posts. you
can also create pages which is very
similar to creating posts  except they
similar to creating posts except they
appear in your blog. They're just
they're static pages that you can use
in your navigation or anything else. So
what you might want to do is like an
about page and you can say all about me
and you can have whatever you want to
write about yourself here. Now when you
publish that that is live  at the URL
publish that that is live at the URL
about which you can change. Let me
just quickly show you that. So if you
wanted to edit the URL or the slug as we
call it, you can you can do that.  but
call it, you can you can do that. but
that doesn't appear anywhere. Okay? So
it's not on your homepage. So you want
to link say if you want to link to that
then in Pagecord you have  navigation
then in Pagecord you have navigation
items. So let's say we want a navigation
item. We want to link to a page then we
just add that and then that will appear
at the top.
there it is.  now you have a link all
there it is. now you have a link all
about me at the top.  and it's pretty
about me at the top. and it's pretty
cool. You can also  you can do a
cool. You can also you can do a
custom link. So if you just wanted  a
custom link. So if you just wanted a
link to another external website
or we have social links. So if you
wanted  a link to like your blue sky
wanted a link to like your blue sky
account and we can do one to the page
called is on blue sky  anx. So if we
called is on blue sky anx. So if we
did that and then go back to your blog
refresh then you get your little blue
sky link and that will take you to the
blue sky page.  so that's your
blue sky page. so that's your
navigation, which is pretty cool.
Now, the other thing you can do with
pages is create a homepage. So, by
default, everyone gets their blog  on
default, everyone gets their blog on
the homepage. Oh, I suppose while I'm
here, I should quickly show you the
the different layouts. So, let's just do
a list of titles because that's quite
popular.  that's your classic blog
popular. that's your classic blog
with titles, but  and the other one
with titles, but and the other one
being cards. Let's just quickly show you
that.
Okay. So, that's kind of like the card
view and obviously just click to view.
okay.  so let's create the
okay. so let's create the
homepage. So, if you if you wanted the
people visiting your URL just to see a
page and all of your posts, then you can
create a homepage. You don't have to
have a title.
sometimes people like to do a little
little emoji as a title. I'll show you
what why that looks.  hey, welcome to
what why that looks. hey, welcome to
my blog.
Okay, so we create the homepage and now
if we refresh the blog, then you get
the page and this is the title. So the
title is just an emoji. You can just
have that as a word or non none at all.
of course you can do all of the other
things like if you wanted
a pretty picture  on your homepage,
a pretty picture on your homepage,
then you can do that.  but now of
then you can do that. but now of
course, where do people find your posts?
Well, there's a couple of things you can
do.  you can either link to your
do. you can either link to your
posts in the body  of the page.
posts in the body of the page.
And let's just do that. This uses some
sort of special
variables that you can include on
your page. So, you can just do the
little  curly brackets syntax. So, you
little curly brackets syntax. So, you
can just do posts like that. And that
that will actually embed all your posts.
You probably you don't probably don't
want to do that. So you might want to
say limit five and and that will limit
your latest posts like that.  which is
your latest posts like that. which is
pretty cool in the sort of  date title
pretty cool in the sort of date title
format if you wanted you know. So what
people would probably do maybe like a
little heading latest posts
and then that will probably look a bit
better. Yay. Now but how do you see all
the posts? Well, the key to doing that
is just to have add a navigation item.
and you can call it blog or post and
just do post slashposts is a kind of
special page called  path that links
special page called path that links
to your blog which is mainly useful when
you have a homepage. So, if we add that
to the navigation, we can rearrange
this. So, I'm going to have that I want
that first in the nav. And now, if we
refresh, now I have my latest post here,
but I also have my blog there.  yay.
but I also have my blog there. yay.
And we have latest posts.
You can also tag posts. So, let's see if
we go to
here there are a few options. You can
change publication time. You can change
the canonical URL if you kind of have
content elsewhere and you you want the
canonical to be that.  you can make
canonical to be that. you can make
private posts. But let's add some tags.
So,  let's say this is all about
So, let's say this is all about
photos. add no then it will add a tag
and when you view you can see the tag
there and when you view that one
then you have a tag and then you can
click and tag all your  posts showing
click and tag all your posts showing
photos
and now another thing you can do on your
homepage if you wanted  you could say
homepage if you wanted you could say
tags and you can is a little tags
variable there. And what that'll do,
go to our homepage. That'll give you a
an ordered list,  of tags, but you
an ordered list, of tags, but you
might you might want to not have it in
that way. In which case, there's a
little style option. You can say inline
and then it'll do a comma separated list
of all your tags, which is pretty
cool.  and if you wanted,  you can
cool. and if you wanted, you can
also kind of chain these things. So, if
you wanted to, you could do
photo posts and you can add a the same
tag. You can have your posts limited by
five because you don't want them all.
And then you can say tag  photos. And
And then you can say tag photos. And
that will hopefully just show you the
posts that are that are tagged, that
thing. So, you can kind of build up your
homepage
in this way, which is  pretty cool.
in this way, which is pretty cool.
So, it's starting to take shape.
you also get built-in analytics here.
it's not showing anything for my blog
because it doesn't count me because I'm
like logged in and it's me.  but this
like logged in and it's me. but this
will build up  over time. It's all
will build up over time. It's all
built in. It's a premium feature.
and that's why you'll see this because
you get a free trial of this, but
it's you have you have to pay the small
fee  to see that every year. But
fee to see that every year. But
actually, if I just show you  this is
actually, if I just show you this is
the actual page called blog, so you can
see what it looks like. This is what
it'll look like. You get all your kind
of popular pages and you can kind of
click back through  you know, all the
click back through you know, all the
different months. You can see it by
year. I only launched this in like
September.
yeah, so that that's analytics.  which
yeah, so that that's analytics. which
is pretty cool. The other features
are custom domains. You can you can't do
this in a free trial, but you can map
your custom domain really easy. There's
like other things I won't go into here.
but there's also  email
but there's also email
subscription. So you can have a little
box that people can subscribe to your
blog by email. And if you do that, then
what happens is any posts that you make
in a given week will get emailed out to
us all your subscribers once a week
maximum  as a digest of all your
maximum as a digest of all your
posts. So it's a nice way of following
your blog if you don't use RSS which is
of course supported by Pagecord. The
other thing here is allow replies by
email
which I'll just enable. It's not enabled
by default. So now now if we go and
visit the blog  and say here now now
visit the blog and say here now now
you get a little  oh you get like so
you get a little oh you get like so
you can like a post but you can also you
you get this. So if someone read your
post and wanted to reply then the you
know you say Olly
Olly .com
great feature
and then someone can
send you a reply to your to your post
and hope hopefully that will
automatically appear in the inbox. So if
we go over here, yay, someone reply to
your post and then you get you get the
message and if you want, you can just
reply to that  as you normally would.
reply to that as you normally would.
So that's  a whistle top stop tour of
So that's a whistle top stop tour of
Pagecord. One last thing I was going to
show you which launched today is custom
CSS.  which is pretty cool feature if
CSS. which is pretty cool feature if
you wanted any more control over over
your blog styling.
For example, if you I mean it's pretty
powerful. I mean pretty much most things
are supported if and if you go to the
help  page there's a help site for
help page, there's a help site for
Pagecord which gives you everything and
this is the page site itself.  so for
this is the Pagecord site itself. so for
example if you wanted to do a different
font  the latter font here you can
font the latter font here you can
kind of paste that in. This has got
syntax highlighting and whatnot.
and that now supports that font. Or if
you wanted to
say center the top nav,
you can do that. Let's just do that.
Center the top nav.  there's a few
Center the top nav. there's a few
little things actually because there's
like three parts to the top nav. We'll
just add them all in.  center the bio
and also
that one. don't have an avatar  on
that one. don't have an avatar on
this demo, but you can do that. Let's
just hopefully see this works. So now if
we refresh that, then everything's
centered in the middle. So pretty
straightforward to do that. The help
guide has got loads of cool things. You
can have background images and change
all your colors to how however you want.
and yeah, that's it. So if you like
the look of this,  sign up,  get a
the look of this, sign up, get a
free trial. It's free anyway. your your
your Pagecord account is free forever
on the free plan and only at the time
of recording $29 a year  for
of recording $29 a year for
everything may go up to like 39 this
year because there's so much so many
features  yeah oh one last thing
features yeah oh one last thing
exports if you want to get a copy of
your website in HTML including the
images or markdown you can  and that
images or markdown you can and that
will hopefully yeah then you Just
download a zip. It's got all the data
there. You're not locked in at all.
Pretty easy to move. That's it. Enjoy.